BLOOD DONATION MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 🩸

In a country like Bangladesh, people do not have much opportunities specially the lower-middle income families. If unfortunately they have an accident then it’s extremely hard for them to find a suitable donor for their blood type since most hospitals these days are saturated with patients and not many options are available to them except to wait. Blood donation management system will provide a faster and more efficient way to get their blood type as soon as possible and in the process wont risk a person's life.

The process of managing the blood bag that is received from the blood donation events needs a proper and systematic management. The blood bag must be handled with care and treated thoroughly as it is related to someone’s life. The development of Web-based Blood Donation Management System is proposed to provide a management functional to the blood bank in order to handle system properly. The focus is to find the blood donors in an emergency situation and to provide direct link between the donor and the recipient. The Manual Blood donation system has many disadvantages which includes, it is too time consuming, often leads to error prone results, consumes lot of manpower, lacks donor information, retrieval of data takes a lot of time, percentage of accuracy is less. In the time of emergency, it becomes difficult to approach the right donor. Rare blood groups are not available all the time at all blood banks and recipients find difficulties to track the right blood donor.

This is a group collaboration of our CSE311(Database Management System) course final project. Blood Donation Management system is a web-based system that helps the users with the information of different blood types and how they can be utilized in the blood bank to help several clients that are in need. We used HTML, CSS,
Javascript, PHP and Sql to construct and create the website and I heavily focused on the Design and the Frontend aspect of it.
